skills/gwirian-cli/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: gwirian-cli
description: Runs and composes commands for the Gwirian CLI (gwirian) to interact with the Gwirian API—list/show/create/update/delete projects, features, scenarios, and scenario executions; configure auth and base URL. Use when the user wants to manage Gwirian data via CLI, create or edit features/scenarios, execute scenarios (with Playwright or similar), or automate Gwirian operations from the terminal.
---

# Gwirian CLI skill

Use the **gwirian** CLI to talk to the Gwirian API from the terminal. This skill supports **managing** features and scenarios (create, update, delete), **listing** projects/features/scenarios for context, and **recording** scenario executions when running tests with another tool (e.g. Playwright). For execution flows, always read the project’s **context** for accounts, environments, and URLs.

## When to use

- User wants to **list or show** projects, features, scenarios, or scenario executions from the terminal
- User wants to **create, update, or delete** a feature, scenario, or scenario execution via CLI
- User wants to **execute one or more scenarios** (with Playwright or similar): use the CLI to fetch project/feature/scenario data and to **read project context**; use the other tool to run the tests and the CLI to **record scenario executions**
- User wants to set or check the API token or base URL for the CLI
- User says “with the gwirian CLI”, “via gwirian”, “gwirian command”, or similar
- You need to script or automate Gwirian API calls and the CLI is available

## How to run the CLI

- **If `gwirian` is on PATH** (after `npm link` or `npm install -g .` from gwirian-cli): run `gwirian <command> ...`.
- **Otherwise** from the gwirian-cli project root: `node dist/cli.js <command> ...` (after `npm run build`) or `npm run dev -- -- <args>` for development.
- **Non-interactive:** always pass a subcommand (e.g. `projects list`). Without a subcommand and without a TTY, the CLI prints help.

Use `--json` when you need structured output (e.g. to parse project context or IDs).

**Installing the skill:** After installing the CLI, run `gwirian install --skills` to copy this skill into `.cursor/skills/gwirian-cli` and/or `.claude/skills/gwirian-cli` (so Cursor or Claude Code can use it). Use `--target cursor` or `--target claude` to install for one only; use `--global` to install in your home directory. See the reference for full options.

## Task-oriented usage

### 1. Configure auth

- First time or missing token: run `gwirian auth` (prompt) or launch `gwirian` with no args in a TUI for setup.
- Commands that call the API require a configured token; otherwise the CLI reports “No token configured. Run \"gwirian auth\" to set your API token.”
- Do not prompt for the token in chat; point the user to `gwirian auth` or the TUI.

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| Set token | `gwirian auth` |
| Set token and test | `gwirian auth -t` or `gwirian auth --test` |
| Clear token | `gwirian logout` |
| Show config | `gwirian config get` |
| Set base URL | `gwirian config set base-url <url>` |

### 2. List or show projects, features, scenarios

Use these to resolve IDs and to **get project context** before executing scenarios.

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| List projects | `gwirian projects list` (use `--json` to parse) |
| Show project (includes context) | `gwirian projects show <project-id>` (use `--json` to read `context`) |
| List features | `gwirian features list <project-id>` |
| Show feature | `gwirian features show <project-id> <feature-id>` |
| List scenarios | `gwirian scenarios list <project-id> <feature-id>` |
| Show scenario | `gwirian scenarios show <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id>` |

### 3. Create or update features and scenarios

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| Create feature | `gwirian features create <project-id> [--title] [--description] [--tag-list]` |
| Update feature | `gwirian features update <project-id> <feature-id> [--title] [--description] [--tag-list]` |
| Delete feature | `gwirian features delete <project-id> <feature-id>` |
| Create scenario | `gwirian scenarios create <project-id> <feature-id> [--title] [--given] [--when] [--then] [--position]` |
| Update scenario | `gwirian scenarios update <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> [--title] [--given] [--when] [--then] [--position]` |
| Delete scenario | `gwirian scenarios delete <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id>` |

### 4. Execute scenarios (with Playwright or another tool)

When the user wants to **execute one or more scenarios**:

1. **Always fetch project context first.**  
   Run `gwirian projects show <project-id> --json` and read the **`context`** attribute. The context can contain:
   - Accounts to use (e.g. test users, credentials or magic-link emails)
   - Environments and their base URLs (e.g. local, staging, production)
   - Any other hints needed to run the scenarios (e.g. roles, feature flags)

2. **Resolve features and scenarios** with the CLI (e.g. `features list`, `scenarios list`) and use the project context to choose environment and accounts.

3. **Run the actual tests** with the other tool (e.g. Playwright skill or Playwright MCP): navigate to the URLs from context, use accounts from context, perform the steps implied by each scenario’s title/given/when/then.

4. **Record each execution** with the CLI:  
   `gwirian scenario-executions create <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> --status passed|failed|pending [--executed-at <ISO>] [--notes "..."]`

If the API does not return a `context` field, proceed with user-provided or default environment/account information and note that project context was missing.

### 5. List or record scenario executions

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| List executions for a scenario | `gwirian scenario-executions list <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id>` |
| Show one execution | `gwirian scenario-executions show <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> <execution-id>` |
| Create execution (record a run) | `gwirian scenario-executions create <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> [--status] [--notes] [--executed-at]` |
| Update execution | `gwirian scenario-executions update <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> <execution-id> [--status] [--notes] [--executed-at]` |
| Delete execution | `gwirian scenario-executions delete <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> <execution-id>` |

Status values: `passed`, `failed`, `pending`. Use `--executed-at` in ISO 8601 format when creating or updating.

## Reference

- **Full command list and examples:** [reference.md](reference.md) in this skill folder.
- **Implementation and file layout:** gwirian-cli project **AGENTS.md**.

## Tips

- Prefer running the CLI in the terminal and parsing output; use `--json` when you need structured data (especially project `context`).

Commit message:

Clarify project context usage in Gwirian CLI documentation
This commit updates the reference.md and SKILL.md files to emphasize the importance of using the project context when executing scenarios. The documentation now specifies that users must always fetch and apply the project context before running tests, detailing the necessary attributes and their roles in execution. This enhancement aims to improve user understanding and prevent execution errors due to missing context.

skills/gwirian-cli/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: gwirian-cli
description: Runs and composes commands for the Gwirian CLI (gwirian) to interact with the Gwirian API—list/show/create/update/delete projects, features, scenarios, and scenario executions; configure auth and base URL. Use when the user wants to manage Gwirian data via CLI, create or edit features/scenarios, execute scenarios (with Playwright or similar), or automate Gwirian operations from the terminal.
---

# Gwirian CLI skill

Use the **gwirian** CLI to talk to the Gwirian API from the terminal. This skill supports **managing** features and scenarios (create, update, delete), **listing** projects/features/scenarios for context, and **recording** scenario executions when running tests with another tool (e.g. Playwright).

**Rule: when executing scenarios, you must always use the project context.** Before running any scenario (e.g. with Playwright), fetch the project with `gwirian projects show <project-id> --json`, read the **`context`** attribute (environments, URLs, accounts, logins), and use that information to run the tests. Do not execute scenarios without having fetched and applied the project context.

## When to use

- User wants to **list or show** projects, features, scenarios, or scenario executions from the terminal
- User wants to **create, update, or delete** a feature, scenario, or scenario execution via CLI
- User wants to **execute one or more scenarios** (with Playwright or similar): use the CLI to fetch project/feature/scenario data and to **read project context**; use the other tool to run the tests and the CLI to **record scenario executions**
- User wants to set or check the API token or base URL for the CLI
- User says “with the gwirian CLI”, “via gwirian”, “gwirian command”, or similar
- You need to script or automate Gwirian API calls and the CLI is available

## How to run the CLI

- **If `gwirian` is on PATH** (after `npm link` or `npm install -g .` from gwirian-cli): run `gwirian <command> ...`.
- **Otherwise** from the gwirian-cli project root: `node dist/cli.js <command> ...` (after `npm run build`) or `npm run dev -- -- <args>` for development.
- **Non-interactive:** always pass a subcommand (e.g. `projects list`). Without a subcommand and without a TTY, the CLI prints help.

Use `--json` when you need structured output (e.g. to parse project context or IDs).

**Installing the skill:** After installing the CLI, run `gwirian install --skills` to copy this skill into `.cursor/skills/gwirian-cli` and/or `.claude/skills/gwirian-cli` (so Cursor or Claude Code can use it). Use `--target cursor` or `--target claude` to install for one only; use `--global` to install in your home directory. See the reference for full options.

## Task-oriented usage

### 1. Configure auth

- First time or missing token: run `gwirian auth` (prompt) or launch `gwirian` with no args in a TUI for setup.
- Commands that call the API require a configured token; otherwise the CLI reports “No token configured. Run \"gwirian auth\" to set your API token.”
- Do not prompt for the token in chat; point the user to `gwirian auth` or the TUI.

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| Set token | `gwirian auth` |
| Set token and test | `gwirian auth -t` or `gwirian auth --test` |
| Clear token | `gwirian logout` |
| Show config | `gwirian config get` |
| Set base URL | `gwirian config set base-url <url>` |

### 2. List or show projects, features, scenarios

Use these to resolve IDs and to **get project context** before executing scenarios.

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| List projects | `gwirian projects list` (use `--json` to parse) |
| Show project (includes context) | `gwirian projects show <project-id>` (use `--json` to read `context`) |
| List features | `gwirian features list <project-id>` |
| Show feature | `gwirian features show <project-id> <feature-id>` |
| List scenarios | `gwirian scenarios list <project-id> <feature-id>` |
| Show scenario | `gwirian scenarios show <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id>` |

### 3. Create or update features and scenarios

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| Create feature | `gwirian features create <project-id> [--title] [--description] [--tag-list]` |
| Update feature | `gwirian features update <project-id> <feature-id> [--title] [--description] [--tag-list]` |
| Delete feature | `gwirian features delete <project-id> <feature-id>` |
| Create scenario | `gwirian scenarios create <project-id> <feature-id> [--title] [--given] [--when] [--then] [--position]` |
| Update scenario | `gwirian scenarios update <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> [--title] [--given] [--when] [--then] [--position]` |
| Delete scenario | `gwirian scenarios delete <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id>` |

### 4. Execute scenarios (with Playwright or another tool)

When the user wants to **execute one or more scenarios**:

1. **You must always fetch and use project context.**  
   Run `gwirian projects show <project-id> --json` and read the **`context`** attribute. Use it for:
   - **Environments and URLs** — base URL(s) to navigate to (e.g. local, staging, production)
   - **Accounts** — test users, logins, or magic-link emails to use
   - Any other hints (roles, feature flags, etc.)  
   Do not run scenario execution without having read and applied this context. If the project has no `context` or it is empty, ask the user for environment URL and test account details before running tests, or clearly note that context was missing.

2. **Resolve features and scenarios** with the CLI (e.g. `features list`, `scenarios list`). Use the project context to select environment and accounts for the run.

3. **Run the actual tests** with the other tool (e.g. Playwright skill or Playwright MCP): navigate to the URLs from context, use accounts from context, perform the steps implied by each scenario’s title/given/when/then.

4. **Record each execution** with the CLI:  
   `gwirian scenario-executions create <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> --status passed|failed|pending [--executed-at <ISO>] [--notes "..."]`

### 5. List or record scenario executions

| Task | Command |
|------|---------|
| List executions for a scenario | `gwirian scenario-executions list <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id>` |
| Show one execution | `gwirian scenario-executions show <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> <execution-id>` |
| Create execution (record a run) | `gwirian scenario-executions create <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> [--status] [--notes] [--executed-at]` |
| Update execution | `gwirian scenario-executions update <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> <execution-id> [--status] [--notes] [--executed-at]` |
| Delete execution | `gwirian scenario-executions delete <project-id> <feature-id> <scenario-id> <execution-id>` |

Status values: `passed`, `failed`, `pending`. Use `--executed-at` in ISO 8601 format when creating or updating.

## Reference

- **Full command list and examples:** [reference.md](reference.md) in this skill folder.
- **Implementation and file layout:** gwirian-cli project **AGENTS.md**.

## Tips

- Prefer running the CLI in the terminal and parsing output; use `--json` when you need structured data (especially project `context`).
